## Terminal Boredom

**Izumi Suzuki**

This is a selection of science fiction short stories originally released in
Japan some time in the 60s-80s. I'm not sure when, exactly, but if I can find
it I'll add it in.

### Women And Women (1978)

The male population has declined as a result of pollution and war, and all men
are imprisoned at birth. One day, a girl sees a boy from out her window; she
starts a secret dialogue with him, knowing that it is forbidden. He forces
himself on her in an abandoned factory and is sent back to the camps; the story
ends with her wondering how she can live knowing what she knows about men, and
women.

_I saw this described "ambivalent feminist separatism" in a paper._

### You May Dream

The narrator's friend is put into cryosleep as part of a draconian population
control policy by the government. The narrator agrees to transfer her
consciousness, and they meet in the narrator's dreams. But the dreamworld
they've created is cold, and harsh, and nihilistic, and when the narrator is
sent to cryosleep they decline to share consciousness, thinking people will be
happier without them around. 

### Night Picnic

A family of monsters live as humans in the ruins of an abandoned city. They try
to find answers to the question of their existence in the symbols and history
of humanity. This structure and routine holds back a deep fear, an indolence,
and a terrible power.

### That Old Seaside Club

A woman travels to an uncanny, superficially pleasant planet. She finds herself
surrounded by addicts and nostalgic for memories that don't feel like hers.
Everyone is desperately scrambling to keep what might already have been lost.

### Smoke Gets In Your Eyes

Jane is interrupted at the arcade by an old woman who reminds him of his ex
Reiko. We take a tour through their distant, drug-addled relationship: Jane's
cold indifference, Reiko's addiction. The old woman _is_ Reiko: they sit and
talk and listen to music, wondering if things could've turned out differently.


### Forgotten

The relationship between an alien and a human is strained as their governments
teeter on the edge of war. The alien and his comrades are afraid of Earth's
brutal expansionism and plan an escape. Both he and the human try to escape the
inevitable, either literally or with substances.

### Terminal Boredom

Two teenagers are adrift and unemployed in an automated police state. One has
an implant that makes them want to watch TV --- the other doesn't need it, it's
all she has to do. After witnessing a murder they believe the only way to feel
and connect is through violence.
