## Three Sentence Summary

Katherine Angel posits that consent is not enough, that while positive
consent is the "least bad standard" for sexual assault legislation, it
isn't equipped to make "sex good again". She is critical of *confidence
culture*, the idea that a woman should be invulnerable and
self-confident --- either knowing her desires and giving positive
consent, or boldly rebuffing any man who crosses her boundaries. She
argues instead for a model of sexual assault that places responsibility
with the assaulter; for recognition of the power dynamics and inequality
inherent in sex; and for acceptance of women's (and men's) sexual
vulnerability, and the pleasure that can be found in experimentation and
uncertainty.

## Chapter Summaries

### 1. On Consent 

Positive consent is the "least bad standard" for sexual assault
legislation, but it cannot achieve the larger aim of consent culture ---
of making sex good again. Advocates both for and against positive
consent use the language of *confidence*: either that women should know
what they want and enthusiastically communicate it; or else should
boldly stand up to any man who oversteps his mark. The latter position
ignores the real imbalance of power in hetero sex; the former asks that
women "know ourselves in order to be safe from violence", and that
desire be "fixed and known" before women can experience pleasure

### 2. On Desire 

Angel presents two contrasting views of sexual desire:

1.  the Masters-Johnson 'linear' model of sex, where desire is a
    spontaneous biological drive for both men and women
2.  the theory that male desire is spontaneous, whereas women's is
    responsive and more driven by non-sexual needs

The first, she argues, is a shoddy medicalisation of a social
phenomenon, while the latter places women in a passive role and can
transform female desire into transactional motive. The reality is that
both shaped by societal forces: female spontaneous desire is repressed
and punished by society, while men's non-sexual motives are rendered
invisible

### 3. On Arousal 

Sex studies claim to identify what *really* arouses women by measuring
for example vaginal blood flow, and have repeatedly found that women's
subjective arousal is 'non-concordant' with these physical responses.
This finding are troubling for two reasons:

-   if positive consent and self-knowledge protect against sexual
    violence, what does it mean to not know what arouses you?
-   if physical arousal is an indicator of *real* arousal, can a woman
    who is physically aroused during a sexual assault defend herself in
    court?

In measuring physical responses these experiments remove sex from its
social reality: "it is not the case that sexual desire is occurring and
women are disconnected from it; it's that what the laboratory is
studying is not sexual arousal"

### 4. On Vulnerability 

Consent and confidence culture position women as invulnerable, knowing
full well their desires and needs and being able to communicate them
clearly. This comes from a place of wanting to protect women from men
who see uncertainty as something to be overcome --- see 'no' as an
invitation to push for a 'yes'. But sexual pleasure arises from
vulnerability, from being both "met \[... and\] surprised in one's
desires": where consent reaches its limits, Angel advocates
"conversation, mutual exploration, curiosity, uncertainty".
