## Three Sentence Summary

Luddism has been unfairly painted as technophobic; in reality it
identified that technology is a *political* tool used to control and
exploit labour, that can and should be resisted. The accelerationist
left and pro-automation union leaders have been more concerned with how
technology *could* help the worker of the future, than how it is making
people's lives worse *now*. The reality of automation in the workplace
has always been one of fractioning, alienation and control, resisted
repeatedly by workers through labour organising, machine-breaking and
ingenious sabotage.

## Chapter Summaries

### 0. Introduction

The prevailing attitude on the centre and right, as well as the
accelerationist left, is that progress (or liberation) is synonymous
with and achieved through technological development. The Luddite
argument is that technology is anti-progress, in that
capitalist-produced technology can *only* further the goals of capital.
"\[T\]o be a good Marxist is to also be a Luddite", and a Luddite trend
exists throughout labour movements to the present day.

### 1. The Nights of King Ludd

Rather than technophobia, Luddism is the recognition that technology is
*political*, and that it should be opposed when used by capital to
exploit and fragment labour. Historical Luddism can therefore be
considered a proto-organised labour movement revolting against their
growing exploitation under proto-capitalism. Accelerationist leftism is
antithetical to Marxism as a theory of struggle, since at its worst it
posits that post-work socialism can be achieved without class conflict
through technological innovation and automation.

### 2. Tinkerers, Taylors, Soldiers, Wobs

The Second International wanted capitalism to fully develop and
advocated capitalist technological growth, seeing socialism as a
necessary consequence of advanced capitalism's inherent contradictions.
Taylorism --- monitoring and enforcing workers\' individual actions
under the guise of improving efficiency --- was for this reason
championed by some on the left, including the governments of Lenin and
Stalin. Meanwhile Taylorism was *actually* controlling and exploiting
labour: the IWW advocated existing sabotage practices among workers as
part of a broader class struggle.

### 3. Against Automation

Automation in the last century has polarised labour, increasing the risk
and pace for the lowest-paid workers while generating more and more
wealth for bosses. Those at the greatest risk of both unemployment and
overwork are invariably those with the least power, such as black
Americans during the Civil Rights era, and women working as telephone
operator. But from ports to mines to factories, unions have consistently
bought into automation's false promises of higher wages and shorter
hours, leaving it up to workers to engage in wildcat strikes and
sabotage the new machines.

### 4. High-Tech Luddism

Computers have been used throughout their history to reorganise labour
through automation and abstraction and surveil and control by collecting
vast amounts of data. The response of some workers and hackers has been
characteristically Luddish:

-   sabotage, through either direct damage, slowdown or fraudulent data
    entry
-   the Free Software movement as a way to decommoditise software and
    regain control over one's work
-   the use of Tor and other anti-surveillance technologies

The proliferation of technology like self-checkouts and the ubiquity of
data collection has blurred the lines of work and leisure, generating
value for capitalists from every interaction.

### 5. Conclusion

Decelerationism is not a return to some "state of nature" or a "slow
lifestyle": it is the

> manifestation of an antagonism towards the progress of the elites at
> the expense of the rest of us \[... i\]t is a wrench in the gears.

Luddism as a political movement therefore:

-   emphasises autonomy
-   views technology as a site of struggle
-   rejects "efficiency" as an end in itself
-   is antagonist to existing capitalist social relations

It is concerned with articulating *how things are*, how work is made
worst through technology, and what workers are doing and can do to
resist and change the world for the better.
