_**Note:** I found this incredibly difficult to summarise, and I don't
know if I have the ability to articulate my thoughts --- but I'll do my
best._

## Three Sentence Summary

The book is a 'critique of' critique of the spectacle, described as the
belief that the bombardment of images and spectacles has rendered
democractic subjects passive and ignorant. Rancière sees this as a
reaction to the breakdown of cause and effect in artistic intent, and
relates it to the Victorian idea that the "fragile brains" of poor
people were too easily influenced by and unable to comprehend consumer
society. He argues that spectators are inherently active participants
who interpret and recontextualise what they see to *create* meaning, and
thus that art can map out a new 'topography' of possibilities for
society *regardless of the artist's intent*.

## Chapter Summaries

### 1. The Emancipated Spectator 

The paradox of the spectator is defined thus: theatre cannot exist
without spectators, but spectators are necessarily passive and ignorant.
Theatrical theory has approached this paradox in two contrasting ways:

1.  The spectator must be given distance to observe, digest and learn
    from the spectacle (Brecht)
2.  Distance must be abolished, the spectator made part of the spectacle
    itself and granted the ability to act (Artaud)

By using the metaphor of an ignorant schoolmaster who teaches "something
that \[he\] does not know himself", Rancière argues that the spectator
is necessarily an active participant, interpreting what they see in the
context of their existing knowledge.

### 2. The Misadventures of Critical Thought 

Critical thought is exemplified by ironic melancholy on the left and
fervent anti-democracy on the right, both arguing that any attempt to
combat their "beast" merely empowers it. This comes from the Victorian
belief that the "fragile brains" of poor people are incapable of
comprehending consumer society: that they "do not know how to transform
acquired knowledge into activist energy". An emancipatory critique
should instead try to break from this pattern, allowing for *dissensus*
and the vision and action of people otherwise thought of as "without
qualities".

### 3. Aesthetic Separation, Aesthetic Community 

Through examples from art and philosophy the author attempts to sketch a
shape of a dissensual "aesthetic community". A point that comes up
repeatedly is the separation between artistic intent and form, and the
audience's political understanding of a work. Two examples are given of
the indirectly political nature of art:

-   the floorlayer who finds shared humanity and new passions in reading
    romantic heroic fiction
-   the director of *In Vanda's Room*, a deeply aesthetic film about the
    lives of poor drug addicts whose stories may only be seen by the
    "film-buff elite"

### 4. The Intolerable Image 

The classical use of intolerable images is: seeing the image prompts
political understanding in me, and so I take action to stop this thing.
Critique of the spectacle privileges the voice over images, positing
that the bombardment of intolerable images has failed to cause political
action because democratic individuals lack the knowledge to understand
them. The author instead argues that images can be political tools: they
"do not supply weapons for battle", but "perhaps" create a new and
unintended landscape of understandings and possibilities in their
audiences.

### 5. The Pensive Image 

A pensive image is a transitory one, one that draws attention to the
"zone of indeterminacy between thought and non-thought, activity and
passivity, \[...\] art and non-art". The aesthetic break from
representational art is often described as the "happy model of the
autonomy of art" free from representation, or else the "tragic model of
the 'sublime'" where ideas are divorced from reality. Against this is
the pensive image, representational yet having "tension between several
nodes of representation" and resisting clear understanding.
