# Walden (Henry David Thoreau)

## Chapter Summaries

### 1. Economy

A person's unhappiness and discontent is a result of societal obligations to
own possesions, and having to work to afford them. One should instead live more
simply and focus on improving oneself rather than one's surroundings, as
Thoreau attempts to demonstrate. There is a lot of unfortunate racial stuff in
here.

### 2. Where I Lived, And What I Lived For

Thoreau begins with a description of his time at Walden Pond in late summer,
how his house was built and how pleasant he found the place. Modern society is
build on meaningless "progress" (e.g. the emptiness of the daily news), and
often at the expense of many people (e.g. the railroad). Rather than rushing
about from place to place on business, one might live mindfully and with clear
purpose, allowing the world to go on as it does.

### 3. Reading

Reading fits well into this philosophy, being a slow, considered form of
self-development and entertainment. Thoreau maents how people 'waste' time on
"easy reading", contenting themselves with mass entertainment rather than
grappling with the enduring classics. He argues for collective adult education
and a system of focused self-betterment, what he calls the "_un_-common
school".

### 4. Sounds

The book returns to summer, in particular the sounds of nature --- birds and
animals --- contrasted with the insistence of the railroad. In particular
Thoreau valorises the cockerel with its punctual, open nature. Meditation,
meaning time spent observing the work as it is without working the body or
mind, is both pleasant and worthwhile in itself.

### 5. Solitude

On loneliness: people ask, isn't it depressing to spend so much time alone?
Thoreau disagrees, arguing that one cannot feel lonely if one is in some way
occupied --- including meditation. Indeed, he points out that we're often most
alone when in a crowded city or engaged in boring chit-chat: living among
people is no guarantee of good company.

### 6. Visitors

By virtue of being difficult to visit, the author finds he has fewer but more
interesting houseguests. He describes a woodcutter who lives nearby, not
intellectual but independent and a free thinker who seems content in his life.
Certainly this seems far more virtuous than the hurried businessmen who visit
only to criticise his different lifestyle.

### 7. The Bean Field

Passers-by comment on the poverty of the author's field, but he sees it as a
half-cultivated link between the counted fields of humanity and the unaccounted
bounties of nature. He considers it a moral good to be able to tend to the land
and feed oneself, and seems to enjoy it. But he laments the obsession with
growth that drives farmers to grow crops only to sell them for profit.

### 8. The Village

Thoreau speaks about making his way through the forest at night: we navigate
our lives by rote, and are forced to learn when we are lost. He then relates
the story of being detained for not paying taxes, and how the state attempted
to force its laws and rules upon him. Perhaps if people took only what they
needed, and didn't ruthlessly take while others were in need, crimes of
property would cease to be committed.

### 9. The Ponds

The author describes the natural beauty of Walden and its surrounding ponds. He
lambasts the money-grubbing farmer for whom Flint's Pond is named, for failing
to see nature's value except as something to be exploited for profit. Similarly
the destruction of the forest around Walden to make way for the railroad:

> Talk of heaven! ye disgrace earth.

### 10. Baker Farm

This isn't the most comfortable read. Thoreau makes some good points about
how consumption creates the need for work, and one can enjoy life more by
learning to live with less. But his discourse comes off as preaching and
presumptive, shot through with an anti-Irish strain.

### 11. Higher Laws

The author begins with a treatise on vegetarianism as both more humane, and
practically less hassle if you're dressing game. Sobriety, too, is considered
moral --- though this is to do with maintaining clarity of thought. A recurring
theme is his elevation of Truth and Clarity: these come from clarity, and
denial of one's "baser" pleasures.
