The Luddites have been victims of a consistent mischaracterisation of their
politics and historical importance. Rather than the technophobic reactionaries
they're often presented as, *Breaking Things At Work* argues that the Luddites
identified technology as a *political tool*, and one that can be opposed. Gavin
Mueller paints Luddism as an early form of organised labour, opposing
proto-capitalism with direct action.  Capitalist technology is used --- Mueller
argues can *only* be used --- to further the interests of capital, namely:
exploitation, control, extraction of value. Destruction of technology,
therefore, should not be read as an opposition to the technology itself, but
rather, to *the social order guiding it*.

Mueller mounts a two-pronged attack against the pro-technology left.  Both
orthodox and "fully automated luxury" Communism are oppositional to Marx as a
"cartographer of proletarian struggle", being more concerned with how
technology *could* benefit the worker of the future than how it is hurting them
*now*. For this reason machine-breaking and sabotage should be encouraged by
Marxists --- it is *a tool used by workers* in their struggle against
oppression today. Thus the second prong: Marxism is a "theory of struggle".
Rather than hoping that socialism can be achieved without much change in one's
own material conditions, a "Luddish" Marxism should identify potential fissures
in capital and seek to work them open. By breaking the frames that alienated
them from their craft, the Luddites correctly identified technology as a
fissure and began to work it open with sabotage and destruction.

The book isn't entirely without criticism. In particular, I wasn't convinced by
Mueller's characterisation of the Free Software movement as Luddite. Modern
mass surveillance systems are dependent on free and open source software.
Palantir for example (co-founded by Peter Thiel, who is explicitly called out
in the book) is responsible for [a significant number of open source
projects](https://palantir.github.io/) distributed under the MIT license.
Likewise TensorFlow, distributed by Google under the open Apache License, is
used by [the aerospace and defence company
Airbus](https://www.tensorflow.org/about/case-studies) to analyse satellite
imagery and is an integral part of [Google's search
algorithm.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RankBrain) Do these projects serve
the interests of capital? I believe the Free Software movement is better
understood as *creating* political tools than using them. To be crude: a club
can beat a worker on strike, but it can also break the gears of an engine. The
club itself, and the people who made it, aren't necessarily Luddites or
anti-worker. The present state of the open source movement is politically
ambivalent, and being better than closed source capitalism is simply not good
enough.

In accelerationists, in the Second International, and in union leaders who buy
into the false promises of marketers, Mueller identifies more concern for how
things could be than how they are. At the same time notionally libertarian
socialist ideas are being subsumed into capital, in the form of flat
hierarchies and worker self-determination and -management exemplified by
[companies like
Netflix.](https://www.slideshare.net/nolensan/netflixorganizationalculture-131001173045phpapp02?ref=https://hbr.org/2014/01/how-netflix-reinvented-hr)
This is only possible because of the surveillance and control that automated
data collection gives management, and the "internaliz\[ation of\] management
prerogatives". Technology invented by the capitalist social order serves that
order. Smashing the technology is a valid method of subverting it.

Social visions from the left have failed repeatedly, been subsumed by capital
or else adopted its worst excesses. It sometimes feels necessary to act without
guidance, to destroy for the sake of destruction. But destroying society
without a vision of what you'll build in its place is a dangerous leap of
faith, one that can vanish into nothingness or be usurped by other interests.

The solution Mueller presents is an eclectic one, embodying the histories of
both the Luddites and Marx. This Luddism is one that recognises technology as a
political "site of struggle", one that is "antagonistic" to capitalism
entirely. It is concerned with articulating *how things are*, how work is made
worse through technology and what workers are doing to resist and to change the
world for the better.  Mueller's Luddism is "general", able to adapt to
changing circumstances and destroy whatever new 'innovation' capital seeks to
subdue us with.  It is a genuinely exciting politics. Rather than focusing on
the past or speculating about the future, it looks at the present and ask:
where is the fissure? How do we force it open?
