[Link](https://www.rolsontools.com/products/household-hobby/security-locks/combination-padlock/)

## Dials

4 dials numbered 0-9

## Difficulty

Beginner

## Notes

This is a **terrible lock**.

If you haven't worked on combination locks before, one method of
decoding is to pull up on the shackle and turn the dials, feeling for
when each number sets. I've seen a couple of videos of this being done
on the Rolson, but it's completely unnecessary. It turns out, you can
actually see inside the lock mechanism and **decode it by sight**.

The underside of each dial is hollowed out, and there is enough slop
that you can push a dial out from one side and look under it from the
other. If you turn the dial you'll notice one of the numbers has a bar
behind it. This bar needs to be at the back of the mechanism, so
subtract or add 5 to get your code number e.g. if the bar is behind 8
then the number to enter is 3.

A question I ask myself when choosing a lock to use is, "What is the
realistic threat I'm defending against?" An [Abus
64TI](https://www.abus.com/uk/Home-Security/Padlocks/TITALIUM/64-TITALIUM)
can be picked, but is it **realistic** that someone would do that to get
into my gym locker? No. Anyone who could do it would probably rake open
the shitty 3-pin lock next to me instead.

This vulnerability means the lock can be opened with no tools in around
30 seconds. If you knew what you were looking for you could decode this
in public without anyone noticing. Is it realistic for someone to
recognise a combination padlock and know how to decode it? Probably not.
But the bypass is fast, simple and unobtrustive. Personally I wouldn't
use this lock.

Also I may be one of the few people who cares about this, but the entire
base is rounded so I can't stand the thing upright with my other locks.
The only way to have it not fall over is to balance it on the dumb red
frontplate that protects the dials... but then the *Rolson* logo is
upside-down! Terrible!
